Homework 2 Cover Sheet
----------------------

In this assignment, I completed:

- [x] Phase 1
- [x] Phase 2
- [x] Phase 3
- [x] Phase 4
- [x] Phase 5

I discussed this assignment with:

- My brother, Austin Halls, to get advice on troubleshooting flex-box content justification issues
- Piazza post to clarify margin issues with my h1 elements

[x] I solemly swear that I wrote every line of code submitted as part
of this assignment (except that auto-generated by Django).

The most interesting thing I learned in this assignment was how to use flex boxes to wrangle my layout. I didn't realize how complicated layouts could be without things like flexboxes. It was cool to see what I could do with flex boxes
and what I needed to do to actually use them to their full potential. 

The hardest thing in this assignment was figuring out how to justify my content left or right in my flex boxes. I was having a really hard time actually getting my items to justify to the right, even though it seemed like I had everything correct even 
when using the inspect tool on my browser. My issue ended up being the flex-grow property, as I didn't really understand it that well. I had to spend a lot of time looking over the slides and messing around with my code before I understood that 
the reason my content wouldn't justify to the right is because I needed to make the left element larger to actually 'push' the right element over. I'm still a little confused on it, honestly, but I think I have a better understanding than I did before. 
