# PlantDoctor 
Contributors: Kira Halls, Jocelyn Morris, Charlotte Saethre, Kylen Xiao, Nick Kofford, Jason Lin

## Overview
This project was a group assignment as part of a software practice class at the University of Utah. 

The assignment overview was to create an application that teaches users about a topic (to be chosen by the group) and utilize a physics simulator called Box2D as part of the assignment. We were required to develop both the front-end and back-end code to produce a fully functional application. We chose to create an app about how to take care of house plants. Users will learn how to nurture house plants by learning how often to water a plant, how much sun to give them, etc. In addition, users will learn how to resolve common plant illnesses such as root rot, bugs, underwatering, overwatering, etc. 

## App Walkthrough
Our application provides four different house plants that function as 'levels' for the user to progress through. The app begins on a selection screen where they can choose from the plants, progressing in order of difficulty -- Snake Plant (introductory level), Pothos, Poinsettia, and String of Pearls. In this repository there is a video labeled "PlantDoctorVid_1" that is a visual presentation of our project, highlighting the main aspects of our application. 

### General level description
Once a plant has been selected, the associated level will begin. Users are presented with an interactive screen that contains a picture of their plant in the center of the screen. The plant image changes with different plant diseases to indicate to the user what problems the plant is having -- for example, the plant photo will switch to a photo of the plant with bugs on the leaves, yellowed leaves, etc. To the right is a selection of buttons representing the tools the user can select to use on their plant; these tools include a watering can, fertilizer, misting, pesticide, and plant repot tool. Underneath the tools widget is a box that lists the current problems the plant is facing--underlighting, overlighting, under/over fertilizing, under/over watering, under/over misting, etc. To the left of the plant is an information card that details the requirements for taking care of the associated plant. These details include the watering schedule, the light level requirements, misting and repotting information, etc. At the top of the screen is a slider that allows the user to change the light level in a range from full shade to full sunlight. Additionally, there is a box that indicates the current season (spring, summer, fall, winter), the day in the season (allows user to follow a multi-day watering schedule), and a play/pause button as needed. Finally, there is a box labeled "Plant Diseases" that opens a screen with information on common plant diseases and how to fix them. To complete the level, the user must successfully keep the plant alive through all four seasons. If the plant has a problem for more than a set amount of days, it dies and the user fails the level. 

### Level Difficulty
The four different plants vary in difficulty. For example, the Snake Plant is the easiest plant. To keep it alive, users only need to water it once every few weeks, keep it in any light level except full shade, and fertilize once per season in spring and summer. It will not contract any plant diseases unless the user creates the problem themselves through overwatering, under lighting, etc. In contrast, the String of Pearls is a much more difficult level. The string of pearls requires a strict watering and lighting schedule that varies with the seasons. It will also randomly contract different plant illnesses like getting root rot or bugs on its leaves that the user must treat. Additionally, the number of days the plant can survive with a plant illness is much lower than the Snake Plant, so users must treat the diseases much faster. 


## Learned Software Engineering Skills 
Physics Simulator: This project taught me how to utilize Box2D, a physics simulator associated with Qt Creator. Our plant tools use Box2D to create realistic watering animations. For example, the user sees the water from the watering can falling as expected and 'disappearing' into the pot to indicate it is absorbed by the plant. These physics animations were used on every tool (except the repotting tool, as there is no physical indication of repotting except for a change in pot color). 

Signals/Connections: This project taught me how to emit and connect signals across files to allow the game UI to interact with the backend code to make game events occur. This allowed us to maintain good software engineering practices by having each file fulfill a specific purpose instead of having one big file that had all the code included. I learned a lot about signals and when they should be used, as well as how to properly implement them so they function correctly. 

Full stack development: This project taught me about full-stack development and what it truly means to develop a project as a full stack developer. Previous projects I really only focused on either the front end or the back end of the code, or the two different sections were developed through a long period of time as part of separate assignments. This taught me how to connect my code as I go, and specifically taught me a lot about bug testing on both ends, which was a very different experience than bug testing an interface itself, or regular lines of code. 

Team work/SCRUM development: This project utilized a SCRUM development process to give us experience as part of a team using a real-world development process. As a team, we were required to meet daily and discuss our current tasks and goals as well as update each other on what we had completed the previous day. We divided our project up in the very beginning into small, focused tasks which helped us conceptualize our project and think through the concrete tasks needed to complete our project. We also learned how to adjust our tasks list throughout the process as needed, teaching us to adjust our project as needed and teaching us how to adapt to new requirements in the middle of a project. Finally, I learned how to work in a team and utilize everyone's strengths. For example, Kylen Xiao had a lot of experience with digital art, so he was tasked with creating the images for each plant as well as their associated images for plant diseases such as leaves with bugs on them, yellowed leaves to indicate a lack of light, etc. By playing to everyone's strengths, we were able to efficiently work on the project and complete all the requirements without added confusion or difficulty.  

## Specific Contributions
My specific contributions to this project include emitting/connecting signals to the game screen, implementing the files to keep track of each plant's specifications, changing the game screen to change plant photos to indicate plant diseases, and working with the team to bug test their parts of the project. 

